> Changes are typically made to a component or system to either enhance it by adding a new feature or to fix it by removing a [Defect](Defect.md). [Testing](Testing.md) should then also include [Confirmation testing](Confirmation%20testing.md) and [Regression testing](Regression%20testing.md). [Confirmation testing](Confirmation%20testing.md) confirms that an original [Defect](Defect.md) has been successfully fixed. Depending on the [Risk](Risk.md), one can test the fixed version of the software in several ways, including:
> - executing all test cases that previously have failed due to the [Defect](Defect.md), or, also by
> - adding new tests to cover any changes that were needed to fix the [Defect](Defect.md) 
> However, when time or money is short when fixing [defects](Defect.md), [Confirmation testing](Confirmation%20testing.md) might be restricted to simply exercising the steps that should reproduce the [Failure](Failure.md) caused by the [Defect](Defect.md) and checking that the [Failure](Failure.md) does not occur.
>
> [Regression testing](Regression%20testing.md) confirms that no adverse consequences have been caused by a change, including a fix that has already been confirmation tested. These adverse consequences could affect the same component where the change was made, other components in the same system, or even other connected systems. [Regression testing](Regression%20testing.md) may not be restricted to the [Test object](Test%20object.md) itself but can also be related to the environment.
>
> It is advisable first to perform an impact analysis to optimise the extent of the [Regression testing](Regression%20testing.md). Impact analysis shows which parts of the software could be affected. Regression test suites are run many times and generally the number of regression test cases will increase with each iteration or release, so [Regression testing](Regression%20testing.md) is a strong candidate for automation. Automation of these tests should start early in the project. Where [CI](Continuous%20Integration.md) is used, such as in DevOps (see section 2.1.4), it is good practice to also include automated regression tests. Depending on the situation, this may include regression tests on different levels. [Confirmation testing](Confirmation%20testing.md) and/or [Regression testing](Regression%20testing.md) for the [Test object](Test%20object.md) are needed on all [Test levels](Test%20levels.md) if [defects](Defect.md) are fixed and/or changes are made on these [Test levels](Test%20levels.md).[^1]

[^1]: Certified Tester Foundation Level Syllabus (v4.0). April 21, 2023. ISTQB. Retrieved from https://www.istqb.org/certifications/certified-tester-foundation-level.