> There exist many [Review](Review.md) types ranging from informal reviews to formal reviews. The required level of formality depends on factors such as the [SDLC](Software%20Development%20Lifecycle.md) being followed, the maturity of the development process, the criticality and complexity of the work product being reviewed, legal or regulatory requirements, and the need for an audit trail. The same work product can be reviewed with different review types, e.g., first an informal one and later a more formal one.
> 
> Selecting the right review type is key to achieving the required review objectives (see section 3.2.5). The selection is not only based on the objectives, but also on factors such as the project needs, available resources, work product type and risks, business domain, and company culture. Some commonly used review types are:
> - Informal review. Informal reviews do not follow a defined process and do not require a formal documented output. The main objective is detecting [anomalies](Anomaly.md).
> - Walkthrough. A walkthrough, which is led by the author, can serve many objectives, such as evaluating [Quality](Quality.md) and building confidence in the work product, educating reviewers, gaining consensus, generating new ideas, motivating and enabling authors to improve and detecting [anomalies](Anomaly.md). Reviewers might perform an individual review before the walkthrough, but this is not required.
> - Technical Review. A technical review is performed by technically qualified reviewers and led by a moderator. The objectives of a technical review are to gain consensus and make decisions regarding a technical problem, but also to detect [anomalies](Anomaly.md), evaluate [Quality](Quality.md) and build confidence in the work product, generate new ideas, and to motivate and enable authors to improve.
> - Inspection. As inspections are the most formal type of review, they follow the complete generic process (see section 3.2.2). The main objective is to find the maximum number of [anomalies](Anomaly.md). Other objectives are to evaluate quality, build confidence in the work product, and to motivate and enable authors to improve. Metrics are collected and used to improve the [SDLC](Software%20Development%20Lifecycle.md), including the inspection process. In inspections, the author cannot act as the review leader or scribe.