> The ISO/IEC 20246 standard defines a generic review process that provides a structured but flexible framework from which a specific review process may be tailored to a particular situation. If the required review is more formal, then more of the tasks described for the different activities will be needed.
> 
> The size of many work products makes them too large to be covered by a single review. The review process may be invoked a couple of times to complete the review for the entire work product. The activities in the review process are:
> - **Planning**. During the planning phase, the scope of the review, which comprises the purpose, the work product to be reviewed, [Quality](Quality.md) characteristics to be evaluated, areas to focus on, exit criteria, supporting information such as standards, effort and the timeframes for the review, shall be defined.
> - **Review initiation**. During review initiation, the goal is to make sure that everyone and everything involved is prepared to start the review. This includes making sure that every participant has access to the work product under review, understands their role and responsibilities and receives everything needed to perform the review.
> - **Individual review**. Every reviewer performs an individual review to assess the [Quality](Quality.md) of the work product under review, and to identify [anomalies](Anomaly.md), recommendations, and questions by applying one or more review techniques (e.g., checklist-based reviewing, scenario-based reviewing). The ISO/IEC 20246 standard provides more depth on different review techniques. The reviewers log all their identified [anomalies](Anomaly.md), recommendations, and questions.
> - **Communication and analysis**. Since the [anomalies](Anomaly.md) identified during a review are not necessarily [defects](Defect.md), all these [anomalies](Anomaly.md) need to be analysed and discussed. For every [Anomaly](Anomaly.md), the decision should be made on its status, ownership and required actions. This is typically done in a review meeting, during which the participants also decide what the [Quality](Quality.md) level of reviewed work product is and what follow-up actions are required. A follow-up review may be required to complete actions.
> - **Fixing and reporting**. For every [Defect](Defect.md), a defect report should be created so that corrective actions can be followed-up. Once the exit criteria are reached, the work product can be accepted. The review results are reported.