> A state transition diagram models the behaviour of a system by showing its possible states and valid state transitions. A transition is initiated by an event, which may be additionally qualified by a guard condition. The transitions are assumed to be instantaneous and may sometimes result in the software taking action. The common transition labelling syntax is as follows: "event [guard condition] / action". Guard conditions and actions can be omitted if they do not exist or are irrelevant for the tester.
>
> A state table is a model equivalent to a state transition diagram. Its rows represent states, and its columns represent events (together with guard conditions if they exist). Table entries (cells) represent transitions, and contain the target state, as well as the resulting actions, if defined. In contrast to the state transition diagram, the state table explicitly shows invalid transitions, which are represented by empty cells.
>
> A test case based on a state transition diagram or state table is usually represented as a sequence of events, which results in a sequence of state changes (and actions, if needed). One test case may, and usually will, cover several transitions between states.
>
> There exist many [Coverage](Coverage.md) criteria for state transition testing. This syllabus discusses three of them.
> 
> In **all states coverage**, the coverage items are the states. To achieve 100% all states coverage, test cases must ensure that all the states are visited. Coverage is measured as the number of visited states divided by the total number of states, and is expressed as a percentage.
> 
> In **valid transitions coverage** (also called 0-switch coverage), the coverage items are single valid transitions. To achieve 100% valid transitions coverage, test cases must exercise all the valid transitions. Coverage is measured as the number of exercised valid transitions divided by the total number of valid transitions, and is expressed as a percentage.
> 
> In **all transitions coverage**, the coverage items are all the transitions shown in a state table. To achieve 100% all transitions coverage, test cases must exercise all the valid transitions and attempt to execute invalid transitions. Testing only one invalid transition in a single test case helps to avoid fault masking, i.e., a situation in which one defect prevents the detection of another. Coverage is measured as the number of valid and invalid transitions exercised or attempted to be covered by executed test cases, divided by the total number of valid and invalid transitions, and is expressed as a percentage.
> 
> All states coverage is weaker that valid transitions coverage, because it can typically be achieved without exercising all the transitions. Valid transitions coverage is the most widely used coverage criterion. Achieving full valid transitions coverage guarantees full all states coverage. Achieving full all transitions coverage guarantees both full all states coverage and full valid transitions coverage and should be a minimum [Requirement](Requirement.md) for mission and safety-critical software.[^1]

[^1]: Certified Tester Foundation Level Syllabus (v4.0). April 21, 2023. ISTQB. Retrieved from https://www.istqb.org/certifications/certified-tester-foundation-level.