
> In contrast to [dynamic testing](Dynamic%20testing.md), in [Static testing](Static%20testing.md) the software under test does not need to be executed. Code, process specification, system architecture specification or other work products are evaluated through manual examination (e.g., reviews) or with the help of a tool (e.g. static analysis). [Test objectives](Test%20objectives.md) include improving [Quality](Quality.md), detecting [defects](Defect.md) and assessing characteristics like readability, completeness, correctness, testability and consistency. [Static testing](Static%20testing.md) can be applied for both [Verification](Verification.md) and [Validation](Validation.md).
>
> Testers, business representatives and developers work together during example mappings, collaborative [User story](User%20story.md) writing and backlog refinement sessions to ensure that user stories and related work products meet defined criteria, e.g., the Definition of Ready (see section 5.1.3). Review techniques can be applied to ensure user stories are complete and understandable and include testable acceptance criteria. By asking the right questions, testers explore, challenge and help improve the proposed user stories.
>
> Static analysis can identify problems prior to [Dynamic testing](Dynamic%20testing.md) while often requiring less effort, since no test cases are required, and tools (see chapter 6) are typically used. Static analysis is often incorporated into [CI](Continuous%20Integration.md) frameworks (see section 2.1.4). While largely used to detect specific code [defects](Defect.md), static analysis is also used to evaluate maintainability and security .Spelling checkers and readability tools are other examples of static analysis tools.[^1]

[^1]: Certified Tester Foundation Level Syllabus (v4.0). April 21, 2023. ISTQB. Retrieved from https://www.istqb.org/certifications/certified-tester-foundation-level.