> Test techniques support the tester in [Test analysis](Test%20analysis.md) (what to test) and in [Test design](Test%20design.md) (how to test). Test techniques help to develop a relatively small, but sufficient, set of test cases in a systematic way. Test techniques also help the tester to define [test conditions](Test%20condition.md), identify coverage items, and identify test data during the [Test analysis](Test%20analysis.md) and design. Further information on test techniques and their corresponding measures can be found in the ISO/IEC/IEEE 29119-4 standard, and in (Beizer 1990, Craig 2002, Copeland 2004, Koomen 2006, Jorgensen 2014, Ammann 2016, Forgacs 2019).
>
> In this syllabus, test techniques are classified as black-box, white-box, and experience based.
>
> **Black-box test techniques** (also known as specification-based techniques) are based on an analysis of the specified behaviour of the [Test object](Test%20object.md) without reference to its internal structure. Therefore, the test cases are independent of how the software is implemented. Consequently, if the implementation changes, but the required behaviour stays the same, then the test cases are still useful.
>
> **White-box test techniques** (also known as structure-based techniques) are based on an analysis of the [Test object](Test%20object.md)'s internal structure and processing. As the test cases are dependent on how the software is designed, they can only be created after the design or implementation of the [Test object](Test%20object.md).
> 
> **Experience-based test techniques** effectively use the knowledge and experience of testers for the design and implementation of test cases. The effectiveness of these techniques depends heavily on the tester's skills. Experience-based test techniques can detect [defects](Defect.md) that may be missed using the black-box and white-box test techniques. Hence, experience-based test techniques are complementary to the black-box and white-box test techniques.